the server is located. In both configurations we have taken 30 measurements, to have
statistically significant values. The average time measured in the first configuration is
350 milliseconds. Regarding some references in the field [57,58], this response time can be
considered to be an immediate response-time. The average value obtained in the second
configuration is 533 milliseconds. These results show that the web application can provide
immediate response times also for the visualization of the results, and the delay in drawing
the required DMR in the client computer will depend on the network connections.
Figure 9. Comparison between the performance evaluation in [19] and the same test with the
web-based application.
5. Conclusions
In this paper, we have proposed the implementation of HPG-Dhunter [19] as a web-
based application for identifying and visualizing DMRs in the DNA coming from different
samples. The tool has been installed on a server, together with a file server and an au-
thentication server. The adaptation of our tool to the new web environment has helped
to improve some sections of the software. Furthermore, the web-based version improves
the efficiency in the identification of DMRs regarding the standalone version, because in
the web-based application the GPU is fully available for computation tasks exclusively,
and the visualization of the DMRs found takes place in the client computer. These im-
provements result in an average speedup of 5.54 regarding the standalone version. The
data transmission through a LAN is included in the total response time, showing that if
the network connection does not add significant delay, then the response time offered by
the server is better than the one offered by the standalone version. Also, the response
time offered by the web-based application to DMR visualization requests coming from
the client computer can be considered to be immediate. Thus, the proposed web-based
application avoids the need for user skills or knowledge about GPU installation, setting up
and maintenance, which prevented this tool from being used by biomedical researchers
with little or no knowledge about this hardware and related software packages.
As a future work to be done, we plan to use an array of GPU devices to support
massive multiuser access to the web application.
Author Contributions: L.F. and R.O. have programmed the necessary changes in the software. M.P.
has designed the tests batteries, and J.M.O. has leaded and supervised the writting of this paper. All
authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by Spanish MCIU and EU ERDF programs under grant RTI2018-
098156-B-C55.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
